# Session 13 Aug 2020

## Review
### Data types
* list
    * values can be nested
* tuple
    * similar to list, but immutable
* set
    * items are unique
    * items must be hashable, basic types of values, number, string, boolean
* dictionary
    * key - value
    * keys must be hashable
    * values can be nested

Items of a list, a tuple and values of a dictionary can be both basic types of values as well as complex types of
values, e.g. list, tuple, dictionary, etc.

## For Statement
Syntax
``` python
for {variable name} in variable:
    code block
```
Indentation is usually 4 spaces

Example
```python
score = [
    {'name': 'jim', 'maths': 8, 'english': 4},  # out of 10
    {'name': 'harry', 'maths': 3, 'english': 4},
    {'name': 'larry', 'maths': 8, 'english': 8}
]

for item in score:
    print(item['name'] + ' maths score: ')
    print(item['maths'])
```

Sub code block(another indentation)
```python
for item in score:
    print(item['name'])

    if item['maths'] >= 6 or item['english'] >= 6:
        print('qualified to graduate')

    if item['maths'] >= 6 and item['english'] >= 6:
        print('awarded')

    # the last if code block is equivalent to
    if item['maths'] >= 6:
        if item['english'] >= 6:
            print('awarded')
```

## Homework
1. concatenate any 2 random strings and print the result
2. Define a list with items starting from 1 to 10. Try to define a tuple and a set to do the same thing,
 if you don't know how to do it search online or on Python official tutorial or documentation.
3. Define a dictionary, which contains main agencies in SG and their numbers of employees(can just write a random number),
 agency names as keys, numbers as values.
4. Define a dictionary, which contains main agencies in SG and the names of any 3 agents from each agency,
 agency names as keys, agent names as values. Try to use not only a list but also a tuple and a set to store names.
5. Define a dictionary, which contains main agencies in SG and the names of any 3 agents from each agency,
a number of listings each agent created and the number of properties each agent sold.
    * the key of number of listings uses 'number_listings'
    * the key of number of sold properties uses 'number_sold'
6. Sum items of the list in 1 using `for` statement and print the result after `for` code block
7. Try to use function `range()` to replace the list predefined manually, you may
need to do some research.
8. try to find a way to concatenate a string and a number, then print the result,
 you may need to do some research.
9. (optional but please try) sum the total number of listings created by all agents from all agencies
 using for statement, the data is from 5
10. (optional but please try) sum the total number of listings created by all agents from each agencies
 using for statement, the data is from 5
11. (optional but please try) compare the number of sold listings, and try to find who sold the most listings
across all agencies

### Clue(try to solve before checking this):
1. Refer to previous notes ands doc online for how to define a list, a tuple and a set.
2. Refer to previous notes ands doc online for how to define a dictionary
3. This can be a nested data structure, lists nested by a dictionary
4. a dictionary contains each agency name as keys, a list as their values,
 each item of the lists can be a dictionary, which contains name and the 2 numbers,
  you can refer to how we store names, scores in a class.

## Tools
* [Jupyter(Classic Notebook is preferable)](https://jupyter.org/try)